## Intuition and Task Description

In this paper, we describe the several steps of quality assessment (QA) for the de-identified CT scans, including the steps converting 2D DICOM files to 3D NIFTI.

## Related Tools used in our Pipeline

## Detailed Steps

### Instance Number Checking

*Instance Number (IN)* is a number that identifies this image in DICOM files, which was named Image Number in earlier versions [1]. Generally, the INs of DICOM images in a single scan should be a series of consecutive integers. Our first priority is to check if there are any missing INs of the CT scan. We check the IN using

$$
\begin{array}{c}
C_{1}=\max \left\{i n_{i}\right\}-\min \left\{i n_{i}\right\}+1-\text {size}\left\{i n_{i}\right\} \\
\left.C_{2}=\sum_{i, j, i < j} 1\left\{i n_{i}=i n_j\right\}\right\}
\end{array}
$$

where $\{i n_{i}\}$ is the list of INs of the DICOM files, and $\text {size}\left\{i n_{i}\right\}$ indicates how many DICOMs in the scan. $C_1$ and $C_2$ represent how many slices are missed in the scan and how many slice-pairs with the same IN, respectively. The CT scan passes the Instance Number check if $C_1=0$ and $C_2=0$.


### Slice Distance Checking

*Slice Location* is defined as the relative position of the image plane expressed in mm. This information is relative to an unspecified implementation specific reference point [@url:https://dicom.innolitics.com/ciods/ct-image/image-plane/00201041]. Slice Distance (SD) is defined as subtraction of Slice Location of the two consecutive DICOMs. Generally speaking, the SD of all consecutive pairs should be the same in a scan, while in practice, the system error might result in very small difference. Herein, we introduce a self-defined threshold to tolerant the system error. The SD checking is

$$
C_{3}=\sum_{i} 1\left\{s d_{i}<\varepsilon\right\}
$$

where $\{ sd_i \}$ is the list of SDs of DICOM files, is the self-defined tolerance threshold. $C_3$ represents how many places which slice distance error. The CT scan pass the Instance Number checking if $C_3=0$.

### Filtering Scans with few slices

Some scans with unreasonable limited number of slices but can easily pass the Instance Number checking and Slice Distance checking. For example, if a chest scan only with 3 DICOM slices, it cannot be usable. Filtering those scans can be easily done with a self-defined threshold on $\text {size}\left\{i n_{i}\right\}$.


$$
C_4 = 1 \{ \text {size}\left\{i n_{i}\right\} < \delta \}
$$

where $\delta$ is the self-defined threshold for filtering scans with few slices. The CT scan pass the filtering checking if $C_4=0$.

### Physical Length Filtering

Some scans are unreasonable extended out of the Region of Interest. For example, the target scan is chest CT while is given a whole-body scan. Another situation is only a chunk of chest CT is given without a complete lung. The *Physical Length Filtering* is designed for selecting those CTs with unreasonable physical body length for further processing or removing. Two thresholds are needed (i.e., low bound and upper bound of physical body length) for filtering

$$
C_5 = 1 \{ \sigma_1 < PL < \sigma_2 \}
$$

where $PL$ is the physical length computed from Slice Location of DICOMs, $\sigma_1$ and $\sigma_2$ are the self-defined low bound and upper bound. The CT scan pass the filtering checking if $C_5=1$.

### Convert DICOM files to NifTI

We use an open-source tool `dcm2niix` [@doi:10.1016/j.jneumeth.2016.03.001] to convert DICOMs file to NIFTI.

### NifTI orientation Check and Resolution filtering

We check the CT orientation and resolution in the affine matrix A, whose size is 4x4. We have

$$
\begin{array}{c}
C_{6}=1\left\{-A_{11}=A_{22}=A_{33}>0\right\} \\
C_{7}=\sum_{i=1}^{3} 1\left\{\left|A_{i i}\right|>\Phi_{i}\right\}
\end{array}
$$

where $\Phi$ is the thresholds of 3 dimensions. The CT scan is not with standard orientation if $C_6=0$, and we use the open source `fslreorient2std` to convert CT to standard orientation. $C_7>0$ represents that the CT does not match resolution requirements.

### Double check with visualized slices

We use the `slicesdir` [**citation**] to visualize scans.